Array decoding bug. (#134)
ethereum/solidity-blog: _posts/2021-04-21-decoding-from-memory-bug.md

---
layout: post
published: true
title:  "Solidity ABI Decoder Bug For Multi-Dimensional Memory Arrays"
date:   2021-04-21
author: Solidity Team
category: Security Alerts
---

> On April 5th, 2021, a bug in the Solidity abi decoder v2 was reported by

Author: ```suggestion
On April 5th, 2021, a bug in the Solidity ABI decoder v2 was reported by
```

John Toman of the Certora development team. Certora's bug disclosure post
can be found here: [Memory Isolation Violation in Deserialization Code](https://www.certora.com/blog/deserialization.html).

The bug is fixed with [Solidity version 0.8.4](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.4)
released on April 21st, 2021. **The bug is present in all prior versions of ABI coder v2.**

> We assigned the bug a severity level of "very low".

Reviewer: Should we add how we arrived at the conclusion?

We are very grateful to John for his continuing efforts to discover bugs in the Solidity compiler.

## Who Should Be Concerned

You could be affected if you are using ABI coder v2 (which is the default starting from 0.8.0) and
especially the function ``abi.decode`` on memory (as opposed to calldata) arrays

> with multi-dimensional arrays or arrays that contain structs.

Reviewer: > You could be affected if you are using ABI coder v2 (which is the default starting from 0.8.0)

Can one be affected only in this case?

Author: yes

The impact of the bug is that if the encoded data is specially crafted,
then the decoded value can depend on values in memory outside of the data to be decoded.

This means that two calls to ``abi.decode`` with the same data can result in different values.

It is not possible to exploit this bug in a way that results in invalid memory write
operations.

Using ``abi.decode`` on calldata byte arrays or the implicit use of ``abi.decode``
for function parameters is unaffected.

## Details of the Bug

The ABI specification uses pointers to data areas for everything that is dynamically-sized.
When decoding data from memory (instead of calldata), the ABI decoder did not properly validate
some of these pointers. More specifically, it was possible to use large values for the pointers
inside arrays such that computing the offset resulted in an undetected overflow.

> This could lead to these pointers targeting areas in memory outside of the actual area to be decoded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This would lead to these pointers targeting areas in memory outside of the actual area to be decoded.
```

---
layout: post
published: true
title:  "Solidity ABI Decoder Bug For Multi-Dimensional Memory Arrays"
date:   2021-04-21
author: Solidity Team
category: Security Alerts
---

> https://www.certora.com/blog/deserialization.html

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> On April 5th, 2021, a bug in the Solidity abi decoder v2 was reported by

Reviewer 3: We use different spellings for the ABI coder v2. I would suggest to use ``ABI coder v2`` everwhere.
```suggestion
On April 5th, 2021, a bug in the Solidity ABI coder v2 was reported by
```

Reviewer 4: I agree (https://github.com/ethereum/solidity-blog/pull/134#discussion_r616630656). Though I think this one is intentionally mentioning only the decoder because only it is affected.

John Toman of the Certora development team. Certora's bug disclosure post

> can be found [here](https://www.certora.com/blog/deserialization.html).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
can be found here: [Memory Isolation Violation in Deserialization Code](https://www.certora.com/blog/deserialization.html).
```

The bug is fixed with [Solidity version 0.8.4](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.4)

> released on April 21st, 2021. **The bug is present in all prior versions of abi coder v2.**

Reviewer 4: It's `abi coder v2` here and `ABI coder V2` in another place. I think one form should be used consistently.

```suggestion
released on April 21st, 2021. **The bug is present in all prior versions of ABI coder V2.**
```

> released on April 21st, 2021. **The bug is present in all prior versions of ABI coder V2.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
released on April 21st, 2021. **The bug is present in all prior versions of ABI coder v2.**
```

We assigned the bug a severity level of "very low".

We are very grateful to John for his continuing efforts to discover bugs in the Solidity compiler.

> ## Who Should be Concerned

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Who Should Be Concerned
```

> You could be affected if you are using ABI coder V2 (which is the default starting from 0.8.0) and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You could be affected if you are using ABI coder v2 (which is the default starting from 0.8.0) and
```

> You could be affected if you are using ABI coder v2 (which is the default starting from 0.8.0) and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You could be affected if all of the following conditions are met:
 - ABI coder v2 (default starting from 0.8.0) is enabled
 - ``abi.decode`` is used to decode an array that resides in memory
 - array is either multi-dimensional or contains structs
```

Reviewer: I think all of them doesn't have to be met. I also think it's rather hard to pinpoint when the bug can happen.

Reviewer: I'll merge this for now.

especially the function ``abi.decode`` on memory (as opposed to calldata) arrays
with multi-dimensional arrays or arrays that contain structs.

The impact of the bug is that if the encoded data is specially crafted,
then the decoded value can depend on values in memory outside of the data to be decoded.

This means that two calls to ``abi.decode`` with the same data can result in different values.

> It is not possible to exploit this bug in order to affect invalid memory write

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is not possible to exploit this bug in a way that results in invalid memory write
```
